# Project instruction - compassion fatigue


My friend, who is a nurse, says she goes to work every day and sees her patients suffering and she feels helpless and miserable too. Over time, she became increasingly grumpy, felt anxious at times and was often an insomniac. I began to think about the lives of those who are busy helping others all day long, social workers who rehome the homeless, doctors and nurses who save lives minute by minute, veterinarians and pet rescuers who witness abuse every day, how do they ease their emotions when they are in a deadly cycle of endlessly witnessing pain every day? How do you stay in a good frame of mind while working?

This excessive stress can quite naturally take its toll on the people coping with this suffering. They will gradually develop compassion fatigue as they witness the pain daily.
Rachel Naomi Remen, author of Wisdom from the Table: Stories of Healing, writes: "We always hope we won't be brought into the pain we must face every day, which is unrealistic, just as we hope we will walk in the rain and not get wet."

Charles Figley, director of the Institute of Traumatology at Tulane University, defines compassion fatigue as "a state of extreme stress that a helper can experience, where the constant focus on the pain that others are facing can cause secondary traumatic stress to the helper." Also known as vicarious or secondary traumatic stress, compassion fatigue is, in short, the indifference that occurs after experiencing empathetic compassion too many times.

Figley says: "People in this profession have to give hope to others every day, as well as being compassionate. Of course, if you don't have empathy, there's no such thing as compassion fatigue. If you can sit with someone who is in extreme pain or anxiety and give them a source of comfort and relief, that's compassion. It's great, but it's really hard."

For this piece, I wanted to use the 3D, sounds, and three.js that I had learned in previous classes to represent the theme of "compassion fatigue". I used material of metal to express the apathy that comes from experiencing empathy too many times. I spent a lot of time importing the 3D model during this process, as the mimic did not recognize the “ import” file, which caused constant errors, but thanks to the help of my classmates I managed to solve the problem. I used the element of flowers to express sympathy and love. The flowers look and feel positive and I found it interesting to put them together with the metal portrait model. I used loops and animation to create random floating spheres that resembled blood and rubies, which I hoped would express that the right amount of sympathy makes people kinder and that too much sympathy can be mentally damaging.

This project was the one where I used the more code and elements, and I encountered a lot of problems that I hadn't encountered in previous homework, which did present some difficulties for me, but in the end, the problems were solved one by one and I became more proficient with three.js.
